MDN Feature pages for SVGAnimatedNumber (#37072)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/svganimatednumber/baseval/index.md

---
title: "SVGAnimatedNumber: baseVal property"
short-title: baseVal
slug: Web/API/SVGAnimatedNumber/baseVal
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.SVGAnimatedNumber.baseVal
---

{{APIRef("SVG")}}

The **`baseVal`** property of the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedNumber")}} interface represents the base (non-animated) value of an animatable numeric attribute.

> This property reflects the static (non-animated) state of the {{SVGAttr("radius")}} attribute of the {{SVGElement("circle")}} or {{SVGElement("ellipse")}} elements, the {{SVGAttr("opacity")}} attribute of an {{SVGElement("SVGElement")}}, the {{SVGAttr("width")}} and {{SVGAttr("height")}} attributes of the {{SVGElement("rect")}} element, or similar attributes, providing access to the base value unaffected by any ongoing animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some SVG attributes accept a single numeric value, such as the {{SVGAttr("radius")}} attribute of the {{SVGElement("circle")}} or {{SVGElement("ellipse")}} elements and the {{SVGAttr("width")}} and {{SVGAttr("height")}} attributes of the {{SVGElement("rect")}} element, and many others. The `baseVal` property reflects and updates the base, or non-animated, value of the numeric attribute.
```

## Value

> A `float` representing the base (non-animated) value of the reflected attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `number`; the base value of the attribute as a float.
```

---
title: "SVGAnimatedNumber: baseVal property"
short-title: baseVal
slug: Web/API/SVGAnimatedNumber/baseVal
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.SVGAnimatedNumber.baseVal
---

{{APIRef("SVG")}}

The **`baseVal`** property of the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedNumber")}} interface represents the base (non-animated) value of an animatable numeric attribute.

> Some SVG attributes accept a single numeric value, such as the {{SVGAttr("radius")}} attribute of the {{SVGElement("circle")}} or {{SVGElement("ellipse")}} elements and the {{SVGAttr("width")}} and {{SVGAttr("height")}} attributes of the {{SVGElement("rect")}} element, and many others. The `baseVal` property reflects and updates the base, or non-animated, value of the numeric attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some animateable SVG attributes accept a single numeric value, such as the {{SVGAttr("radius")}} attribute of the {{SVGElement("circle")}} or {{SVGElement("ellipse")}} elements and the {{SVGAttr("width")}} and {{SVGAttr("height")}} attributes of the {{SVGElement("rect")}} element, and many others. The `baseVal` property reflects and updates the base, or non-animated, value of the numeric attribute.
```

## Value

A `number`; the base value of the attribute as a float.

## Examples

> This example includes a {{SVGElement("path")}} element with a nested {{SVGElement("animate")}} element that animates the value of the {{SVGElement("pathLength")}} attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example includes a {{SVGElement("path")}} element with a nested {{SVGElement("animate")}} element that animates the value of the path's {{SVGElement("pathLength")}} attribute:
```

```html
<path d="M 0,40 h100" pathLength="90" id="path">
  <animate
    attributeName="pathLength"
    values="50; 90; 50;"
    dur="10s"
    repeatCount="indefinite" />
</path>
```

```js
const path = document.querySelector("path");

> console.log(path.pathLength.animVal); // output: 50
> console.log(path.pathLength.baseVal); // output: 90

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(path.pathLength.baseVal); // output: 90
path.pathLength.baseVal = 50; // updates the value
console.log(path.pathLength.baseVal); // output: 90
```
removed the `animVal` from here, and added assignment.
adding animVal in the paragraph explaining it as the alternative for the current val.

```

> We use the `baseVal` property to access the base (non-animating) value of the animating `pathLength`, while the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedNumber.animVal")}} reflects the current value of the {{domxref("SVGGeometryElement.pathLength", "pathLength")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `baseVal` reflect that value of the `pathLength` attribute. We also use the `baseVal` property to access the base (non-animating) value of the animating `pathLength`. 

To access the current value of the {{domxref("SVGGeometryElement.pathLength", "pathLength")}} value as it animates, use the {{domxref("SVGAnimatedNumber.animVal")}} property. 
```
The word "reflects" is kind of reserved for reflecting a base value that could be hard coded in HTML, so we use "reflect" for base values but not for the animated state of a value.
